README.rst, before:

Requires Django 1.3+.

The django-multimail demo site is at: http://www.django-multimail.com

multimail is a simple Django application that provides multiple-email address
functionality for Django's existing User model. Features include:

 * Auto-creation of a multimail email from the email on a User object

 * Email verification via link sent to new email address

 * Auto-deletion of unverified email addresses when a user is administratively
   deactivated.

QUICKSTART 

If you already have email sending configured, Sites configured, and are
exposing messages in your templates:
 
 * python setup.py install
 * add multimail to installed apps
 * include 'django.template.loaders.eggs.Loader' in your TEMPLATE_LOADERS
 * In your base urls.py:
    (r'^mail/', include('multimail.urls')),
 * syncdb

DETAILED START

 * Configure your project for sending email. This usually involves setting
   the following properties in your settings file: EMAIL_HOST, EMAIL_HOST_USER,
   EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD, EMAIL_USE_TLS, EMAIL_BACKEND.  (See the Django docs:
   https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/topics/email/).  Additionally, you
   will need to set either MULTIMAIL_FROM_EMAIL_ADDRESS or ADMIN_EMAIL for
   Multimail to use as the from mail address. ADMIN_EMAIL is used if
   MULTIMAIL_FROM_EMAIL_ADDRESS has not been set.

 * Be sure you are setup to use Django's sites framework (see the Django
   docs: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/ref/contrib/sites/)

   multimail uses the current domain to build verification link URLs.
   Alternatively, you can set the MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_VERIFICATION_URL settings
   property. See the SETTINGS section below.

 * Be sure you are exposing messages in your templates. See Django docs
   on the messages framework:
   https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/ref/contrib/messages/

 * Be sure to include 'django.template.loaders.eggs.Loader' in the
   TEMPLATE_LOADERS in your settings file. You should put this after loaders
   that load templates you create yourself so that you can create overriding
   templates to replace the builtin multimail templates.

 * To install multimail, run python setup.py install

 * Add multimail to your installed apps in your settings file

 * In your base url config, add a line like the following:
    (r'^mail/', include('multimail.urls')),

 * Run syncdb

You can now start creating new EmailAddress objects for your users. A
Verification email will be sent automatically when a new EmailAddress object is
created.

EXAMPLE

>>> from django.contrib.auth.models import User
>>> u = User.objects.all()[0]
>>> u.save() # will automatically create an EmailAddress object for the user's current email address

You can also create EmailAddress objects for users directly:
>>> from multimail.models import EmailAddress
>>> addr = EmailAddress.objects.create(email='user@example.com', user=u)

SETTINGS

The following properties may be set to customize your multimail installation.
Note that where default properties are enclosed with _() indicates translation
via Django's ugettext. Multimail does not currently have any built-in
translations for its default messages. See the Django docs for information
about creating translation messages: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/topics/i18n/localization/

MULTIMAIL_DELETE_PRIMARY
    Default: False. Whether to clear the email field on the user object
    when the last EmailAddress is deleted.

MULTIMAIL_FROM_EMAIL_ADDRESS
    Default: None, but falls back to ADMIN_EMAIL if not available

MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_ALREADY_VERIFIED_MESSAGE
    Default: _("This email address has already been verified.")

MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_VERIFIED_MESSAGE **(See note below)
    Default: _("Thank you for verifying your email address.")

MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_VERIFICATION_URL **(See note below)
    Default: 'http://%(current_site_domain)s/mail/verify/%(emailaddress_id)s/%(verif_key)s'

    Notes: if you change this URL and/or the URL configuration for calling
           the Verify view, you need to be sure that you are passing the
           emailaddress id, and the verification key into the view call.

MULTIMAIL_INACTIVE_ACCOUNT_MESSAGE
    Default: _("The account associated with this email address has been marked as inactive. Please contact the site administrator.")

MULTIMAIL_INVALID_VERIFICATION_LINK_MESSAGE
    Default: _("The seleted email verification link is invalid. Please re-register your email address.")

MULTIMAIL_POST_VERIFY_URL
    Default: '/'

MULTIMAIL_USE_MESSAGES
    Default: True. If set to False, multimail messages using the Django
    messages framework will fail silently.

MULTIMAIL_VERIFICATION_EMAIL_SUBJECT **(See note below)
    Default:  _('Verfication required')

MULTIMAIL_VERIFICATION_EMAIL_HTML_TEMPLATE
    Default: 'multimail/verification_email.html'

MULTIMAIL_VERIFICATION_EMAIL_TEXT_TEMPLATE
    Default: 'multimail/verification_email.txt'

**NOTE: properties marked with ** receive a context dictionary for string
templating. The default values do not take advantage of this, preferring
static strings in order to take advantage of translation capabilities. The
following keys are passed to these strings:
current_site_domain
        current_site_id
        current_site_name
        emailaddress_id
        email (the email on the current multimail email object)
        first_name
        last_name
        primary_email (the email on the user object)
        user_id
        username
        verif_key
        verify_link

Note that MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_VERIFICATION_URL does not get the verif_link key
for obvious reasons.

Commit message:

Adds compatibility note to README

README.rst, after:

Requires Django 1.3+.

The django-multimail demo site is at: http://www.django-multimail.com

multimail is a simple Django application that provides multiple-email address
functionality for Django's existing User model. Features include:

 * Auto-creation of a multimail email from the email on a User object

 * Email verification via link sent to new email address

 * Auto-deletion of unverified email addresses when a user is administratively
   deactivated.

DJANGO COMPATIBILITY NOTE

Multimail was originally designed for Django 1.3 to use Django's messaging
framework. Deprecation of the user.message_set in Django 1.4+ requires
that multimail's USE_MESSAGES setting be set to False in order to work
with those versions of Django. Consideration is being made for updated
compatibility with the messaging framework for Django 1.4+.

QUICKSTART 

If you already have email sending configured, Sites configured, and are
exposing messages in your templates:
 
 * python setup.py install
 * add multimail to installed apps
 * include 'django.template.loaders.eggs.Loader' in your TEMPLATE_LOADERS
 * In your base urls.py:
    (r'^mail/', include('multimail.urls')),
 * syncdb

DETAILED START

 * Configure your project for sending email. This usually involves setting
   the following properties in your settings file: EMAIL_HOST, EMAIL_HOST_USER,
   EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD, EMAIL_USE_TLS, EMAIL_BACKEND.  (See the Django docs:
   https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/topics/email/).  Additionally, you
   will need to set either MULTIMAIL_FROM_EMAIL_ADDRESS or ADMIN_EMAIL for
   Multimail to use as the from mail address. ADMIN_EMAIL is used if
   MULTIMAIL_FROM_EMAIL_ADDRESS has not been set.

 * Be sure you are setup to use Django's sites framework (see the Django
   docs: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/ref/contrib/sites/)

   multimail uses the current domain to build verification link URLs.
   Alternatively, you can set the MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_VERIFICATION_URL settings
   property. See the SETTINGS section below.

 * Be sure you are exposing messages in your templates. See Django docs
   on the messages framework:
   https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/ref/contrib/messages/

 * Be sure to include 'django.template.loaders.eggs.Loader' in the
   TEMPLATE_LOADERS in your settings file. You should put this after loaders
   that load templates you create yourself so that you can create overriding
   templates to replace the builtin multimail templates.

 * To install multimail, run python setup.py install

 * Add multimail to your installed apps in your settings file

 * In your base url config, add a line like the following:
    (r'^mail/', include('multimail.urls')),

 * Run syncdb

You can now start creating new EmailAddress objects for your users. A
Verification email will be sent automatically when a new EmailAddress object is
created.

EXAMPLE

>>> from django.contrib.auth.models import User
>>> u = User.objects.all()[0]
>>> u.save() # will automatically create an EmailAddress object for the user's current email address

You can also create EmailAddress objects for users directly:
>>> from multimail.models import EmailAddress
>>> addr = EmailAddress.objects.create(email='user@example.com', user=u)

SETTINGS

The following properties may be set to customize your multimail installation.
Note that where default properties are enclosed with _() indicates translation
via Django's ugettext. Multimail does not currently have any built-in
translations for its default messages. See the Django docs for information
about creating translation messages: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/topics/i18n/localization/

MULTIMAIL_DELETE_PRIMARY
    Default: False. Whether to clear the email field on the user object
    when the last EmailAddress is deleted.

MULTIMAIL_FROM_EMAIL_ADDRESS
    Default: None, but falls back to ADMIN_EMAIL if not available

MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_ALREADY_VERIFIED_MESSAGE
    Default: _("This email address has already been verified.")

MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_VERIFIED_MESSAGE **(See note below)
    Default: _("Thank you for verifying your email address.")

MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_VERIFICATION_URL **(See note below)
    Default: 'http://%(current_site_domain)s/mail/verify/%(emailaddress_id)s/%(verif_key)s'

    Notes: if you change this URL and/or the URL configuration for calling
           the Verify view, you need to be sure that you are passing the
           emailaddress id, and the verification key into the view call.

MULTIMAIL_INACTIVE_ACCOUNT_MESSAGE
    Default: _("The account associated with this email address has been marked as inactive. Please contact the site administrator.")

MULTIMAIL_INVALID_VERIFICATION_LINK_MESSAGE
    Default: _("The seleted email verification link is invalid. Please re-register your email address.")

MULTIMAIL_POST_VERIFY_URL
    Default: '/'

MULTIMAIL_USE_MESSAGES
    Default: True. If set to False, multimail messages using the Django
    messages framework will fail silently.

MULTIMAIL_VERIFICATION_EMAIL_SUBJECT **(See note below)
    Default:  _('Verfication required')

MULTIMAIL_VERIFICATION_EMAIL_HTML_TEMPLATE
    Default: 'multimail/verification_email.html'

MULTIMAIL_VERIFICATION_EMAIL_TEXT_TEMPLATE
    Default: 'multimail/verification_email.txt'

**NOTE: properties marked with ** receive a context dictionary for string
templating. The default values do not take advantage of this, preferring
static strings in order to take advantage of translation capabilities. The
following keys are passed to these strings:
current_site_domain
        current_site_id
        current_site_name
        emailaddress_id
        email (the email on the current multimail email object)
        first_name
        last_name
        primary_email (the email on the user object)
        user_id
        username
        verif_key
        verify_link

Note that MULTIMAIL_EMAIL_VERIFICATION_URL does not get the verif_link key
for obvious reasons.
